.TH squash 1 "16 November 2015" "squash" "Squash"
.IX squash
.SH NAME
squash \- compress and decompress files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B squash [\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIINPUT\fR [\fIOUTPUT\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B squash
is a command line utility which to compress and decompress data using
any codec which libsquash supports.  For a list of codecs supported by
this copy of libsquash, see the \fI-L\fP flag.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B squash
An input file must be provided, although "-" can be used as an alias
for stdin.

If no output file is provided then squash will attempt to guess an
appropriate file name based on the requested codec and the name of the
input file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

.B squash foo.txt foo.txt.gz
.TP
Compress the contents of \fIfoo.txt\fP to \fIfoo.txt.gz\fP using the "gzip" codec.

.B squash -dc lz4 - -
.TP
Decompress from stdin to stdout using the lz4 codec.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show help screen
.TP
.B \-V
Print version information and exit
.TP
.B \-k
Keep the input file.  By default, squash will try to remove it.
.TP
.B \-o \fIkey\fP=\fIvalue\fP
Pass the specified option to the codec.
.TP
.B \-1 .. -9
Pass the compression level to the encoder.  This is equivalent to
\fI-o level=N\fP.
.TP
.B \-c \fIcodec\fP
Use \fIcodec\fP.
.TP
.B \-L
List the available codecs and exit.
.TP
.B \-P
List the available plugins and exit.
.TP
.B \-f
Overwrite the output file if it exists.
.TP
.B \-d
Decompress (the default is to compress).

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
There are several environment variables which can be used to alter the
behavior of Squash:
.TP
.B SQUASH_PLUGINS=/path/to/plugins
If set, Squash will look for plugins in the specified location instead
of searching the default path.
.TP
.B SQUASH_FUZZ_MODE=yes
If set, this will cause the CLI to always return as if it succeeded,
even if it encountered an error.  This is useful for fuzz testing,
where a failure to decompress garbage data is expected but a
segmentation fault or other catastrophic error is not.
.TP
.B SQUASH_MAP_SPLICE=yes|no|always
This effects Squash's behavior when splicing from one file to another.
If set to "yes" (the default) Squash will use prefer memory-mapped
files over buffering contents in memory.  If set to "no", Squash will
always read the entire input into memory, then perform the compression
or decompression.  If set to always, Squash will always attempt to use
memory mapped files, even if the requested codec supports streaming.

.SH HOMEPAGE
.TP
http://quixdb.github.io/squash/

.SH BUG REPORTS
.TP
https://github.com/quixdb/squash/issues

.SH AUTHOR
squash, and this manual page, was was written by Evan Nemerson
<evan@nemerson.com>.
